[Inaudible].
Difference.
I don't need to tell you that the coronavirus pandemic has inflicted terrible
damage to many countries all over the world in 2020.
I'm not going to tell you that the virus has spread through Asia, Europe,
Africa, and the Americas, nor that a lot of governments,
including those of developed countries, such as Spain, United States,
or the United Kingdom have provided sad and bungling responses.
I won't try to explain what SARS coronavirus two is either.
I'm not going to do any of these things because you already know all of this.
In this video, we're going to focus on Argentina,
a country that is not only suffering the scourge of the coronavirus,
but is also caught in a perfect storm. A pandemic, an economic crisis,
a loan default, and a political confrontation.
The car
[inaudible] is love all the total personality stuff.
You own a solution in a solution. It's Eve
[inaudible] [inaudible].
[Inaudible] I'll return this of policy
[inaudible] [inaudible] [inaudible] [inaudible]
[inaudible].
[Inaudible].
This is serious. Even for Argentina, the country that has made crises,
a Mark of identity it's most defining feature, almost a tourist attraction.
Do you want to see a crisis firsthand? The true effects of devaluation,
maybe even hyperinflation don't delay visit Argentina today,
we're currently offering eight two for the price of one deal. Well friends,
unfortunately, even for a country,
so experienced in dealing with financial crises,
this particular perfect storm may already be too much,
but let's start all the way at the beginning. Let's go back to March 20, 20.
[Inaudible] [inaudible]
[inaudible] [inaudible] [inaudible] [inaudible]
[inaudible] [inaudible].
It's time news about the spread of the virus through Asia and Europe led to the
government of Alberto Fernandez to decree a strict quarantine on March 20th.
The official term used was preventative and obligatory social isolation.
The quarantine established an almost total closure of the country for two weeks
upon its enforcement.
All activities were suspended except for essential activities related to medical
services and the distribution and sale of food.
All of the businesses had to be closed and the Argentinians had to stay at home.
The airports were also closed as well as all land and sea borders to contain the
arrival of the Corona virus, Argentina,
like many other countries went into hibernation mode.
Friends.
From that moment on things changed almost completely.
The use of masks became the norm trains and buses traveled almost without
passengers and the city streets looked like those of an uninhabited town in the
wild West.
And the surprising thing is that this prompt and energetic response made the
popularity of the president.
Alberto Fernandez saw in a country historically divided at political level.
His approval ratings were close to 85%.
[Inaudible].
Because this is far from the end of the story.
Little by little,
the enthusiasm and the new normal lost steam as the quarantine was extended
again and again and again, every 15 days. And since then, yes,
some things have changed.
The strict quarantine has been exchanged for strict social distancing and
containment measures the terms the obligations have been modified.
But the truth is that almost six months on from that March 20th decree,
Argentina is still far from normal,
And it's not all due to the pandemic because as you will know,
we are not talking about just any country,
such long and civic warranty and containment measures would have a terrible
effect on the economy of any country in the world. But in Argentina's case,
it's even worse. Why? Because even before the pandemic,
the Argentine economy was in a critical state.
So you can imagine how bad I'm talking, really bad things look right now.
So why is it that the quarantines and the extreme confinement of the country
have been extended for so long?
Why do the results seem so dire despite all the effort?
What has been the true impact of this pandemic on the Argentine economy and
political landscape? There's an up.
[Inaudible]
an incomplete strategy.
On 20th of March,
the government of Alberto Fernandez declared a strict quarantine seeking the
cooperation of the citizens themselves to enforce it. For example,
an official telephone number was created one, three, four, two,
which any Argentine could call and report anyone who is not complying with the
mandatory confinement and the measures decreed to deal with the pen.
[Inaudible].
Oh, so a strong media campaign was to make people aware of the dangers that this
virus could bring. This virus was presented as a silent killer,
a mass murderer raging out of control, the invisible enemy.
[Inaudible] in [inaudible] and in
[inaudible] [inaudible] the enemy.
Was to raise awareness among all Argentinians so that they would take the fight
against the coronavirus,
as seriously as if the virus were an invading country in this way,
citizens would comply with the harsh measures of confinement and social
distancing
measures such as having to stay at home at all times,
except to perform essential activities.
This nipped mobility between provinces in the bud,
and even after the worst part of the quarantine was over citizens still needed
to carry special permits and authorizations to be able to circulate in many
places in the country, such as the metropolitan area of winners areas itself,
as far as aviation and international travel goes,
let's not even talk about it because friends,
Argentina is one of the few countries where no air connections have been
resumed. In fact, if we take a look for example, at the flight radar app,
we are going to find a very unusual situation.
Little by little planes are beginning to take to the skies except in Argentina,
where they've practically just disappeared.
If we talk about measures, they established some pretty controversial ones.
For example,
releasing lots of prisoners and quarantining them in their homes to prevent them
from becoming sources of contagion within the prisons,
a measure that was put in place,
following the recommendations of the human and the inter American commission on
human rights. But which has been very controversial,
particularly because there have been many known cases of prisoners sentenced for
serious crimes,
such as murder or rape who have managed to get released from the prison on this
scheme and whether or not it's a contributing factor,
because the most important variable is probably the increase in poverty.
The truth is that in recent months there has been an impairment increase.
In crime. The rise of insecurity,
the new phase of the eternal quarantine by nasion Corona virus,
killers and abusers were released from prison because of the pandemic.
[inaudible].
The point is that as you can see,
our Berto Fernandez government has been very assertive in the fight against this
pandemic rights from the beginning. Wouldn't you agree? Well, wait a minute,
because there is something wrong. Take a look at it.
This, the number of grown of virus deaths has doubled in the last three weeks.
And Argentina will reach 10,000 deaths after 170 days of quarantine in
full Bay.
In spite of almost six months of quarantine and strict measures of social
confinement and distancing, as you can see in this graph,
the curve of new cases has not let up. And so the question,
the logical question that we have to ask ourselves is what the hell is going
wrong in Argentina?
Well, friends pay attention to news like this.
Corona virus. Argentina could only test more than Bolivia, Ecuador,
Guyana, and Suriname in the region. Claudia.
Bolivia, Guyana, and Suriname is this some kind of joke.
Isn't Argentina supposed to be a much richer and more developed country. Well,
to give you an idea,
there is not a single country in Europe that does not exceed the number of tests
per million carried out in Argentina, not a single one,
not even those that have been hardly hit by the pandemic.
Let's just say that Argentina values are closer to Africa than to the old
continent and take note,
because one of the strategies shared by the countries that have the best results
against the coronavirus has been to apply the strategy test, test, test.
This is the way you can identify infected people and isolate them to prevent
them from infecting.
[Inaudible] [inaudible] [inaudible] E
[inaudible].
Testing and tracking are two elements that are proving indispensable in
overcoming the score.
However.
Argentina has opted for a different strategy.
The government of Alberto Fernandez has bet practically everything on quarantine
measures the problem. Well, as time goes by the measures of restriction,
quarantine and social distancing are losing their effect.
Let's say as time goes by either out of economic necessity,
exhaustion or low morale,
people will eventually leave their homes and returned to their normal lives.
In fact, this is exactly what happened in Argentina very quickly.
After the first week of strict confinement,
full compliance with the rules became less and less.
The norm don't you.
Take our word for it. It's what president Fernandez himself says.
August 13th, 2020, that they keep talking to me about.
Quarantine is something that amazes me because people are going out.
The number of cases is increasing because circulation is increasing because the
care that we permanently ask for does not exist. Alberto Fernandez,
president of the urgent team.
With few tests and little ability to track and follow up on positive cases,
it is very complicated. If not impossible to deal with this pandemic,
that at least is what the data says.
[Inaudible] I didn't get any [inaudible].
True.
That for the time being Argentina has managed to have thanks to those measures,
uh, lower fatality rates than other countries.
This is partly because the evolution of the pandemic here has been slower.
And with the Corona virus, when the spread is very fast,
it is the overloading of hospitals.
That is one of the causes of the multiplication of death rates.
But if cases continue continued rise like this in Argentina,
we may see more problems. On the other hand,
we cannot forget the economic effect of such an extended period of quarantine,
social confinement and distancing measures.
Friends' Argentina's economy has been in a more profound hibernation than any
other country. And of course we are talking about Argentina,
a country whose foundations were not exactly solid before the pandemic.
And you probably know this very well because we have talked about it often on
visual politic,
the country itself was going through almost two years of recession and was
facing unpayable debt and runaway inflation long before Fernandez decreed the
quarantine. And since then, things have only gotten worse.
Argentina is experiencing a greater economic downturn than the crisis of 2001 to
2002, the worst economic disaster and its history. So far,
according to the Argentinian chamber of commerce and services,
more than 42,000 small and medium sized companies have closed or are a bout to
close in may the country announced its pimp default.
Then according to the ministry of labor, almost 2 million face,
a very complicated employment scenario in which their jobs are suspended.
This is approximately one out of eight private sector jobs.
And given that the government has to resort to the central bank for financing,
it is not hard to imagine that when things begin to normalize,
the country may even face a scenario of hyperinflation.
All of this explains why air clack the United nations economic commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean estimates that poverty will affect nearly 40% of
the population. By the end of the year, Friends,
the situation in Argentina is beginning to be so extreme that a spike in cases
of depression and anxiety at crisis level has already been detected.
At the beginning of the quarantine, six out of 10, Argentines had mild,
moderate or severe symptoms of anxiety over the course of days,
the symptoms remained,
but the anguish turned into depression where you're seeing an epidemic of mental
illness today. We Argentines are exhausted for Cuno monies.
And this is not all to do with the political,
social and economic backdrop in the land of tango.
There is another point that is also very controversial,
the way the pandemic has been co-opted for ideological.
[Inaudible].
You explained the Fernandez government and many unions,
especially those of civil servants have wanted to get a piece of the action.
You know, and if you don't, I'll tell you that in Argentina,
even soup is political and this event was.
Yeah.
The Argentinian government and its allies did something that should never be
done in this type of crisis.
They sought an electoral advantage at any price in this case,
a quick way to dump responsibilities and score and advantage for their political
campaign. You see, after the general confinement was decreed,
the government slogan was the state is taking care of you,
which already made its intentions clear, but they didn't stop there.
Another idea that they tried to spread was that this pandemic showed the market
was an enemy to be beaten.
And some sectors of the government even described COVID-19 as a disease that
could be blamed on the rich,
because of course they said that by traveling abroad,
they had to have brought it back.
Yeah, [inaudible].
[Inaudible].
Yeah.
It is hard to believe that we are talking about Argentina,
a country that was once one of the major players in world market.
This is the price of low-cost populism, economic crisis,
political and social confrontation,
potential hyperinflation in the making and the feeling that the government has
no plan for getting out of this whole friends. Unfortunately,
things in Argentina look worse than ever from here. We have no other choice,
but to send good luck and a lot of encouragement to all of you who are watching
us from Argentina, from all of the visual politic team,
our thoughts are with you. Argentina is a country that we think very highly of.
Hopefully we will soon be able to tell different stories about this country.
And at this point it's all over to you.
What do you think Argentina should do to overcome this crisis?
Leave us your answer in the comments.
And if this video has been interesting for you,
don't forget to click the like button and subscribe to visual politics.
Once again, thank you very much for watching take care and I'll see you next.
If you want to learn more about politics and world affairs,
and here's some more of my lovely voice from check out the reconsidered podcast
where we don't do the thinking for you find
reconsider@wwwdotreconsideredmedia.com or on Apple or Google play,
or your favorite pod catcher.